


BASICS OF CHARACTER DESIGN:
	Characters are made up of a Species and two Classes. 
	All of the character's characteristics, attributes, and abilities are represented on the Character Sheet and the Deck. 

CHARACTER CREATION PROCEDURE:
	1) Develop the concept of the character you want to portray and build (see Chapter XX).
	2) Select a Species for your character, and design a Species Card with 1-3 traits.
	3) Select two Classes for your character.
	4) Fill in your Character Sheet: Character Name, Attribute Points, Skill Points, Hit Points, Movement, Wealth, Combat Modifier, Combat Save DC, etc (refer to the chart at the end of this chapter).
	5) Design 5 Ability Cards that fit your character's Classes (see Chapter XX).

SPECIES:
	Your Species represents your character's biological or supernatural lineage, also sometimes referred to as "race" or "heritage". Examples include humans, elves, dwarves, gnomes, orcs, etc.
	OSK does not use a fixed Species list. Instead, you can adapt Species from other comparable TTRPGs (provided that those species fit with the setting your group is playing in).
	This book provides example Species Cards for common fantasy Species (see Chapter XX). You can use one as written, modify it, or use it as a model for your own.
	Choose a Species that fits both your character concept and the campaign setting.
	A Species Card should usually contain 1–3 traits that represent the Species' most defining innate characteristics. Design these traits using the same general principles as Ability design (see Chapter XX).
	Traits that provide minor benefits (such as the ability to see well in the dark) should be one trait of several.
	Traits that provide major benefits (such as the ability to fly) should generally be the only trait on that Species card (unless the GM and group decide otherwise).
	Species traits should represent inherent qualities. Training, professions, and learned techniques are usually better represented by Skills, Classes, or Abilities.

CLASSES:
	Classes define your character's archetype. Most OSK characters are made up of a Primary Class and a Secondary Class, and they gain experience in both Classes simultaneously.
	Your Classes primarily determine which Source Abilities you can use when designing your own Abilities.
	When choosing Classes, think about what you want your character to do: fighting style, magic, special techniques, signature abilities, etc.
	OSK does not use "subclasses"; however, when creating Abilities, you are still free to choose Source Abilities from any subclass belonging to either of your Classes.
	If you strongly desire it, you can create a "monoclass" character with only one Class. This provides no benefit other than simplicity.

LANGUAGES:
	All characters can speak Common (the "lingua franca" of most settings), plus the language associated with their species (if different from Common).
	Beyond that, a character's fluency in other languages is determined by their Language skill.

CHARACTER ATTRIBUTES:
	Your character's physical and mental attributes are represented by their Attributes.
	Attributes can range from a minimum of +0 to a maximum of +5.
	OSK uses the same classic six Attributes as countless other TTRPGs:
	Strength (STR) - a character's physical might and power
	Dexterity (DEX) - a character's agility, in terms of speed, nimbleness, and hand-eye coordination
	Constitution (CON) - a character's physical endurance, their heartiness and ability to withstand pain and exert themselves
	Intelligence (INT) - a character's raw reasoning ability, their mental horsepower, and their skills at deduction and logic
	Wisdom (WIS) - a character's instincts, intuition, and ability to anticipate the results of future actions.
	Charisma (CHA) - a character's presence, their ability to persuade, flirt, or deceive.

CHARACTER SKILLS:
	Skills represent your character's proficiency in broad categories of tasks.
	Skill modifiers range from +3 to +15, based on the skill points you allocate toward them as you level up.
	You cannot have a modifier higher than +6 before Level 4, and you cannot have one higher than +12 until Level 8.
	For more information on Skills, see Chapter XX.

ABILITIES:
	Each ability is represented by a 3x5 card.
	Characters start with 5 Designed Abilities based on the two Classes they've selected.
	These abilities can be fighting maneuvers, magic spells, or other features that help them in or out of combat.
	Players design these abilities based on the guidelines outlined in Chapter XX.
	Every time a character levels up, you create up to 2 more Ability cards. A Level 10 character will have 23 total Abilities. 

COMBAT MODIFIER / COMBAT SAVE DC:
	These are modifiers that are used with Abilities during combat. They jointly represent your character's overall combat proficiency. 
	Your Combat Modifier is any Attribute of your choice, plus your current Level.
	You can choose which Attribute is the basis of your Combat Modifier during a Long Rest.
	All abilities that involve Attack Rolls are resolved with this single Combat Modifier.
	Your Combat Save DC is your Combat Modifier plus 7. 

INVENTORY / STARTING GEAR:
	Characters are not limited in what gear they can start with, so long as their choices are within reason.
	A starting kit of mundane equipment can all be combined onto a single Equipment card.
	OSK generally assumes that most martial (i.e. non-magic-using) characters start with both a hand-to-hand weapon and a ranged weapon of some kind - but this is ultimately up to the player.
	OSK is not concerned with a character's inventory capacity, and by default there is no limit on the number of cards in a character's deck.
	Inventory capacity can be narratively hand-waived in any number of ways. For example, assuming that each character starts with a Bag of Holding (a magical bag with an infinite carrying capacity).
	A character's armor is already considered part of their team's shared AC (See Chapter XX). In other words: unless it is armor with special properties, your choice of armor is largely cosmetic.
	A party's wealth should begin at the level that makes the most narrative sense.

LEVELING UP:
	Your character's Experience Level ranges from 1-10. This is tracked on your character sheet.
	You gain levels in both of your character's classes simultaneously.
	Your whole adventuring party levels up simultaneously.
	At every Level after 1st, you may create 2 new Ability cards.
	If the players and GM all agree, these cards may be created one at a time: one when you gain the Level, and the second later at an appropriate point. This can reduce the burden of designing and balancing multiple new Abilities at once.
	Additionally, at every level after 1st, you gain Attribute Points, Skill Points, and Hit Points based on a chart (see below).
	The GM determines the most appropriate time for a party to level up (typically based on story milestones).

ATTRIBUTE / SKILL BUBBLES:
	Your character sheet has bubbles that are used to show their current level of allocated points for each Attribute and Skill.
	Bubbles are filled in from left to right; each new Attribute Point or Skill Point can be spent to fill in a bubble, which increases that Attribute/Skill's Modifier.

LEVEL-UP CHART:
	This chart shows how your character's stats and characteristics change as they level up:

	Character	Combat		Combat		Total		Total		Hit		Armor
	Level		Modifier	Save DC		Attribute Pts	Skill Pts	Points		Class
	1		+6		13		11		14		26		14
	2		+7		14		12		16		42		15
	3		+8		15		13		18		58		16
	4		+9		16		14		20		74		17
	5		+10		17		15		22		90		18
	6		+11		18		16		24		106		19
	7		+12		19		17		26		122		20
	8		+13		20		18		28		138		21
	9		+14		21		19		30		154		22
	10		+15		22		20		32		170		23




